README.md, before:

# Andara's World

**Andara's World** is a single-player, party-based tactical RPG set in a post-apocalyptic Earth where fantasy, science fiction, and survival collide. Players lead a small team through a chaotic, emergent world—exploring wastelands, engaging in tactical combat, crafting from scavenged resources, and writing their own story through action rather than scripted narrative.

## Project Status

This project is in early development. The current focus is on establishing the foundational architecture and implementing the core gameplay loop for the prototype phase.

## Architecture

- **Backend**: Spring Boot 3.x (Java 17+) with modular monolith structure
- **Frontend**: React 18+ with TypeScript, Redux Toolkit
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 15+
- **Event Streaming**: Apache Kafka
- **Architecture Pattern**: Event Sourcing + CQRS

## Prerequisites

- **Java**: 17 or 21
- **Node.js**: 20.x (LTS)
- **Docker**: 20.10+ and Docker Compose
- **Gradle**: 8.0+ (wrapper included)

## Local Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd andaras-world
```

### 2. Start Infrastructure Services

Start PostgreSQL and Kafka using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will start:
- PostgreSQL on port 5432
- Zookeeper on port 2181
- Kafka on port 9092

### 3. Backend Setup

```bash
cd andara-server
# First time setup: Download Gradle wrapper (if not already present)
./gradlew wrapper

# Build the project
./gradlew build

# Run the application
./gradlew bootRun
```

The backend will start on `http://localhost:8080`

**Note**: On first run, you may need to download the Gradle wrapper jar. The `gradlew` script will handle this automatically.

### 4. Frontend Setup

In a new terminal:

```bash
cd andara-client
npm install
npm run dev
```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:3000` (or the port configured in Vite)

## Project Structure

```
andaras-world/
├── andara-server/          # Spring Boot backend (modular monolith)
│   ├── andara-api/        # REST controllers, WebSocket handlers
│   ├── andara-application/# Application services, command handlers
│   ├── andara-domain/     # Domain model, aggregates, events
│   ├── andara-infrastructure/ # Persistence, Kafka, external services
│   ├── andara-query/      # Read models, projections, query services
│   ├── andara-common/    # Shared utilities, value objects
│   └── andara-server-app/# Main application class
├── andara-client/         # React frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/          # API client
│   │   ├── store/        # Redux store
│   │   ├── components/   # React components
│   │   └── game/         # Game engine (WebGL renderer)
│   └── public/           # Static assets
├── docker/                # Docker configuration files
├── docs/                  # Project documentation
└── docker-compose.yml     # Local development environment
```

## Documentation

- [Project Inception](docs/andaras_world_inception.md) - Vision, scope, and project overview
- [Game Design Document](docs/andaras_world_gdd.md) - Game mechanics and systems
- [Domain Model](docs/andaras_world_domain_model.md) - Domain-driven design structure
- [Architecture Definition](docs/andaras_world_architecture.md) - Technical architecture

## Development

### Running Tests

**Backend:**
```bash
cd andara-server
./gradlew test
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd andara-client
npm test
```

### Code Style

- Backend: Follow Java conventions, use `.editorconfig`
- Frontend: ESLint and Prettier configured

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` files and configure as needed:
- Backend: `andara-server/.env.example`
- Frontend: `andara-client/.env.example`

## Contributing

This is a personal project in early development. See documentation for architecture and design decisions.

## License

[To be determined]

Commit message:

Refactor project documentation structure and add status hub
- Moved existing status documents (Implementation Status, Project Status, Story Tracker, Quick Reference) to a dedicated `docs/status/` directory for better organization.
- Created an index file for the MVP Status Hub, providing easy access to all status documents and technical components.
- Updated links in the README to point to the new status hub for streamlined navigation.
- Ensured all documents reflect the latest project updates and maintain clarity on the current state of development.

This restructuring enhances the accessibility of project documentation and improves the overall organization of resources for developers and stakeholders.

README.md, after:

# Andara's World

**Andara's World** is a single-player, party-based tactical RPG set in a post-apocalyptic Earth where fantasy, science fiction, and survival collide. Players lead a small team through a chaotic, emergent world—exploring wastelands, engaging in tactical combat, crafting from scavenged resources, and writing their own story through action rather than scripted narrative.

## Project Status

This project is in early development. The current focus is on establishing the foundational architecture and implementing the core gameplay loop for the prototype phase.

## Architecture

- **Backend**: Spring Boot 3.x (Java 17+) with modular monolith structure
- **Frontend**: React 18+ with TypeScript, Redux Toolkit
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 15+
- **Event Streaming**: Apache Kafka
- **Architecture Pattern**: Event Sourcing + CQRS

## Prerequisites

- **Java**: 17 or 21
- **Node.js**: 20.x (LTS)
- **Docker**: 20.10+ and Docker Compose
- **Gradle**: 8.0+ (wrapper included)

## Local Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd andaras-world
```

### 2. Start Infrastructure Services

Start PostgreSQL and Kafka using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will start:
- PostgreSQL on port 5432
- Zookeeper on port 2181
- Kafka on port 9092

### 3. Backend Setup

```bash
cd andara-server
# First time setup: Download Gradle wrapper (if not already present)
./gradlew wrapper

# Build the project
./gradlew build

# Run the application
./gradlew bootRun
```

The backend will start on `http://localhost:8080`

**Note**: On first run, you may need to download the Gradle wrapper jar. The `gradlew` script will handle this automatically.

### 4. Frontend Setup

In a new terminal:

```bash
cd andara-client
npm install
npm run dev
```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:3000` (or the port configured in Vite)

## Project Structure

```
andaras-world/
├── andara-server/          # Spring Boot backend (modular monolith)
│   ├── andara-api/        # REST controllers, WebSocket handlers
│   ├── andara-application/# Application services, command handlers
│   ├── andara-domain/     # Domain model, aggregates, events
│   ├── andara-infrastructure/ # Persistence, Kafka, external services
│   ├── andara-query/      # Read models, projections, query services
│   ├── andara-common/    # Shared utilities, value objects
│   └── andara-server-app/# Main application class
├── andara-client/         # React frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/          # API client
│   │   ├── store/        # Redux store
│   │   ├── components/   # React components
│   │   └── game/         # Game engine (WebGL renderer)
│   └── public/           # Static assets
├── docker/                # Docker configuration files
├── docs/                  # Project documentation
└── docker-compose.yml     # Local development environment
```

## Documentation

- [MVP Status Hub](docs/status/index.md) - Primary entry point for MVP status and tracking
- [Project Inception](docs/andaras_world_inception.md) - Vision, scope, and project overview
- [Game Design Document](docs/andaras_world_gdd.md) - Game mechanics and systems
- [Domain Model](docs/andaras_world_domain_model.md) - Domain-driven design structure
- [Architecture Definition](docs/andaras_world_architecture.md) - Technical architecture

## Development

### Running Tests

**Backend:**
```bash
cd andara-server
./gradlew test
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd andara-client
npm test
```

### Code Style

- Backend: Follow Java conventions, use `.editorconfig`
- Frontend: ESLint and Prettier configured

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` files and configure as needed:
- Backend: `andara-server/.env.example`
- Frontend: `andara-client/.env.example`

## Contributing

This is a personal project in early development. See documentation for architecture and design decisions.

## License

[To be determined]
